Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to be looking at how we can place objects within other objects.
So we saw earlier we can set up an object and we can create that was the curly brackets and then we
can list a number of objects in there and everything has to have a name for it.
So let's say we've got a number of our friends so let's update this to friends and each one of our friends
is a person.
So we've got to give us one a name of Bob and then Bob.
So Bob has an age and he's 30.
He's got a hair color codes call it hair and his hair color is brown.
His eyes are blue.
He's got he works so he works.
So let's say he is a developer and so on.
So this person can have some information and we can list them out so we can do friend friend once our
first friend and this friend is going to be.
So let's see how this works out and go back to here refreshed and let's see what we have within France
right now.
So we'll see that we've got our first friend and our first friend has a whole bunch of information associated
with them so he can do this for other ones as well.
And we don't actually necessarily need to do it outside so we can do something like friend to sort a
second friend.
And here we can specify additional information.
So this is essentially an object within an object and we can do the same information.
We can do different information again depending on what we want to do.
So let's make this goes here.
BLOCK And so on and so on.
So now when i log what my friends are my friends see that I've got multiple friends.
Each one of these friends has its own set of properties and information contained within their saying
to beautify this quickly so it's more readable.
So this is another way that you can write the object information because remember again the way javascript
treats the whitespace is that it doesn't it doesn't take that into consideration.
So that's where we can have all this additional whitespace especially when you do it within this type
of format it's more readable.
We see that though the format is that we've got a value here that the the name and the value and then
the name and the value or comma separated and it's all held within a bracket and we can just as easily
take that object and place it within this object or we can create a separate object directly within
that object.
And as long as we give it a name.
Basically what this means is that a lot of difference but this one is operating on its own whereas this
one is contained within here.
So if we ever needed to pull these people out if we had a bunch of friends and we they all had their
separate names it might be a little bit harder to pull it out if we're doing it within this format.
So always think about your structure and how you can actually use this data.
And that's how you actually end up structuring your data so you could just as easily say we have friend
one 2 and so on.
So maybe my list of friends might be better suited as an array.
So this this time let's set this up as an array so we know with an array we've got those square brackets.
And the first item and our rate is going to be Bob.
And then the second item within our array is just going to be this unknown person.
We don't have a name for them and it's going to be sitting within that array.
So let's bring this back in here.
It's all self contained on one line.
And now let's go back and refreshed and see what we get as a result for friends when we see that.
Now we've got an array.
It contains an object in within each one of the items within the array.
And basically we have access to all of this information.
So what happens if you want to write some of this information.
And this is where the challenge is.
So what I want you to do is to get the information from Bob.
But using the friends object so get hit where he works.
So right out into the console and then next using frames 1.
So using friends returned back Bob's information of where he works and then using friends one returned
back the age of the person
so paused the video and try this out.
And this is a great exercise to really get use to retrieving the data that's being held within objects
and arrays.
So welcome back.
And this one this challenge was to retrieve the information contained within friends.
So we've got friends.
Next we've got the item friend one and we know that the information contained within here is Bob.
And we want to find out where he works.
So we know that he works as a developer.
So it's as easy as that using the dot notation just separating out each level of the object until we
get to the item that we want to take a closer look at and we can see that we've got all of this information
contained within here as well.
So we don't necessarily even need.
So we've got it in friends one and in friends we see that all we're doing is we're following the flow
here.
So we've got friends we've got friend one and that information from Bob has been actually copied into
Friend 1 and all we're doing is just specifying that path to get to where he works.
So the next part of the challenge was to use friends one so need to spell out rate so friends one.
So this was an array.
And we saw that when we output this Bob's information is in the first item and the other person's was
in the second one.
So we need to access the second one.
So we need to specify that array.
And then what we wanted to do was retrieve back the age.
This is a combination of retrieving back that array information as well as the object information.
And this is how we can get the age of that particular person if we want to see the age of the first
person.
We can just change that.
And Bob was actually 30 as well.
So we see that we can access it within that type of format.
So it's great to be able to combine arrays and objects together in order to store and retrieve data.
But again it's you have to do it in a way that makes sense.
And then also remember that you've got to retrieve that data in some type of format as well so this
lesson the end of the lesson challenge is going to be to retrieve information from each one of these
objects and or a race.
So we've got our friends object that contains multiple values and we've got our friends one array that's
got some objects in there.
So what I want you to do now is to retrieve back and to update some of the information that's contained
within there.
So try updating the age in friends and then also try updating the both the ages in friends 1 and I'll
give you a quick hint.
So much like what we've seen earlier once we can retrieve that information.
So if I do friends and if I do friend one and if I do page we see that we get 40 return back.
So we know that we can access the information that way.
So now it's up to you to update that information.
So go ahead.
Pause the video.
Give it a go and I'll show you the solution.
Coming up so I hope you had the opportunity to give that one a try.
And the hit was really there.
That what we need to do is we need to specify the value the new value of age so we can do it just as
easily as that where we can make the update.
So just as we can retrieve the information we can update the information and the same thing goes for
the array.
So we know that we had an array with friends one.
And as let's update maybe the first item in the array and we know that we had age.
So we see that this person's age is 50 and notice the interesting thing here that's happened here is
that this Bob because we're pulling information about Bob and when we updated Bob's information over
here that it actually changed within the array.
And that's the interesting thing about it is that we're able to change the value of Bob.
So let's let's try that as well.
And if we do Bob's age and let's make him 70 this time let's take a look at friends and we'll take a
look and we'll see if not updated the age.
And in fact it did.
So everything is in fact tied together.
And when I take a look at friends one we see that it should be updated as well because everything is
tying back to that variable.
And from the earlier lesson we saw that variables can change and they're expected to change.
And that's one of the reasons that we would use a variable within these objects to make it more flexible
and easier to change.
So this challenge was a little bit of a trick question because all we really had to do is go into Bob
and change his age and that would have changed everything.
So also just to finish up let me show you how to change friends one.
So just as we're able to recall the age of friends one we can also take that value and we can assign
a new value to it.
So let's make this guy 10 and we can see that.
Now when I list friends one I can see that that change has also taken place.
And lastly let's update the value of Bob's age and we'll set them to be 10 within friends 1.
So we know that that takes place we're able to change it to 10.
Let's take a look in friends and we'll see that his age is 10 as well.
Within this one within the friends.
And then lastly let's go take a look at Bob and we see that his age is 10 as well.
So they're all connected.
You update one.
It's going to update all of them.
And that's the real beauty of using variables and really being able to create some dynamic capabilities
with the connections of the variables between these different objects.